# Roadmap

Doodads has a lot of wonderful potential. Here's where I'd like to take it:

1. **Extract method signature parsing.** It's a common pattern in Rails helpers to accept a string, URL, and options hash; or a URL, options hash, and block; or a string and options hash; or an options hash and a block. You can see how complex it gets. I'd like to move the parsing of a given set of args blocks into a utility that can then be used to determine the intended application of arguments effectively, over and over again, and also accept specific sub-components, e.g. an option `:tooltip` that goes in `data-tooltip` or an option `:icon` that renders an icon component with the given argument - itself a custom renderer - and the inserts it into the content.
2. ~~**Components should be classes.** Currently they are instances of `Doodads::Component` but I'd rather they become subclasses with class-level `tagname` and `options` defaults. This would allow custom rendering blocks inside of `app/components`, where they could still be defined by a DSL but also, each time they were rendered they would *actually* be instances of those subclasses, allowing for cleaner mapping between instances for ARIA purposes.~~
3. **Custom rendering blocks.** I'd like to allow elements to accept a string or symbol argument and interpolate it into HTML attributes, or otherwise determine how to use it, but returning a content and options hash. Or possibly using an under-the-hood renderer included in Doodads.
4. **Bullet-proof componentry.** I want to support some of the interesting edge cases I've discovered, like the concept of all content in a component being contained in an inferred _sub-component_ unless an _actual_ sub-component is used - in which case, I'd like to properly make them siblings rather than mixed content.
5. **ARIA shortcuts library.** Passing in "labelledby" should generate ARIA attributes, but I'd like to go one step beyond that and have some semantic shortcuts for more complex situations, like "prefix" generating `aria-labelledby="{prefix} {this id"` and similar.
6. **ARIA referencing.** Components will need to be able to look forwards to determine whether or not other components reference them, or at the very least auto-generate IDs when not provided one, in order to allow the full scope of ARIA functionality I'd like to accomplish.
7. **ARIA assertions and minitest/rspec libraries.** I'd like to extract some of the ARIA logic into an external library that can be used with Rails integration or controller tests to e.g. `assert_accessible(response)` or `expect(response).to be_accessible` or whatever. This should generate an error with accessibility failures and recommended fixes, all of which should be easily implemented with Doodads.
